# 34

Created: 2023-09-28 11:28:31 -0600

Modified: 2023-10-22 17:28:05 -0600

---

Summary

The text delves into the importance of implementing comprehensive security measures at various layers of AWS services, emphasizing the shared responsibility model between AWS and its customers, with special focus on serverless services.

Facts

- Security needs to be applied at various layers such as network edges, compute services, and APIs.
- AWS follows the "shared responsibility model" where AWS is responsible for "security of the cloud" while customers are responsible for "security in the cloud."
- AWS manages security aspects like global infrastructure and foundation services.
- Customers must address security concerns such as patching operating systems, configuring networks, enabling encryption, and establishing correct firewall settings.
- Customers are solely responsible for their data within AWS, ensuring protective controls like identity, access controls, and data encryption.
- Serverless services change the responsibility dynamics; AWS handles more aspects, leaving customers mainly responsible for access control and client-side data encryption.
- Specific AWS services to aid in security include API Gateway, Lambda, and Kinesis.
- "Defense in depth" is a strategy encompassing identity and access controls using tools like Amazon Cognito, data protection using CloudFront's field level encryption, and services like Lambda and DynamoDB.
- AWS Shield and WAF (Web Application Firewall) are tools for attack protection against threats like DDoS.
- AWS X-Ray, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and Config are services provided for auditing and traceability.













![Reduced responsibility on customers in the shared responsibility model To learn more about customer responsibilities in cloud applications and serverless cloud applications, choose the appropriate tab. CLOUD APPLICATION SECURITY SERVERLESS CLOUD APPLICATION SECURITY With infrastructure services like Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), you are still responsible for your operating system, network, and firewall configuration, and the protection of network traffic and both client-side and server-side data encryption. Customer data Platform and application management Operating system, network, and firewall configuration Client-side data encryption Server-side data encryption Network traffic protection Optional - layer of opacity between you and AWS ati Storage Compute Database AWS Global Infrastructure Availability Zones Regions Networking Edge locations Customers are responsible for their security IN the cloud AWS is responsible for the security OF the cloud ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-10-34-image1.png){width="5.0in" height="5.020833333333333in"}













![Applying security at all layers A key principle is that your security strategy should address security at all layers. Use a defense in depth approach that includes multiple security controls. Apply these security design principles at network boundaries, at your application's front door, between its components, and within your code. I de n d access AWS Shield AWS WAF Amazon CloudFront Amazon Cognito Amazon API Gateway AWS Lambda Attack p AVIS IAM Amazon DynamaDB Amazon SS Auditing and traceability AWS x-Ray Amazon CloudWätch AWS CloudTrail AWS config Apply these security design principles at network boundaries, at your application's front door, between its components, and within your code. Now that you have learned about implementing security at all layers. In the following lesson, you will learn security implementation with respect to API Gateway. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-10-34-image2.png){width="5.0in" height="4.28125in"}




