# 11

Created: 2023-09-23 15:13:16 -0600

Modified: 2023-10-29 09:50:07 -0600

---

Summary

The discussion revolves around various deployment frameworks for serverless applications on AWS, emphasizing the importance of automating deployment processes and focusing on infrastructure as code, with a detailed comparison between imperative and declarative approaches and an introduction to AWS deployment frameworks like CloudFormation, CDK, SAM, and the Amplify Framework.

Facts

- Initially, learning may involve manual point-and-click methods in the AWS console, but automation is crucial for deploying applications.
- Infrastructure as code is a concept where resources, configurations, solutions, and integrations between AWS services are captured in a document, which is then used by a service to build out the described infrastructure.
- There are two approaches to infrastructure as code: imperative and declarative.
  - The imperative approach requires specifying exactly how the solution should be built, step-by-step, offering more control and flexibility but requiring more knowledge and longer writing time.
  - The declarative approach involves specifying what is wanted, allowing the service to build it based on provided configurations and properties, offering a lower barrier to entry and easier understanding but less developer flexibility.
- CloudFormation is a service that will be primarily discussed, allowing for infrastructure as code with a declarative approach, using human-readable YAML or JSON, acting as a self-documenting solution.
- Other deployment frameworks include the AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK), the AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM), and the Amplify Framework, all of which utilize a declarative approach to define what needs to be built without specifying the procedural steps.
- These frameworks and approaches help in automating the deployment process, reducing manual errors, and efficiently managing the configurations and integrations between different AWS services.

Regenerate



![AWS CloudFormation AWS CloudFormation is a service that developers and businesses can use to create a collection of related AWS and third-party resources, and provision and manage them in an orderly and predictable fashion. AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) The AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) is an open-source software development framework for defining cloud infrastructure as code (laC) with modern programming languages and deploying it through AWS CloudFormation. AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) The AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) is an open source framework for building serverless applications. It provides shorthand syntax to express functions, APIs, databases, and event source mappings. You can define the application you want with a few lines per resource, and model it using YAML. AWS Amplify AWS Amplify helps frontend web and mobile developers build apps faster. It consists of a development framework and a web hosting service to build and deploy secure and scalable mobile and web applications powered by AWS. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-4-11-image1.png){width="5.0in" height="5.736111111111111in"}



![Two programming paradigms to consider for infrastructure as code Declarative Say what you want: Abstract Lower barrier of entry - Less knowledge is required than with higher-level languages and toolchains Less developer flexibility - Lack of access to full runtime control, looping constructs, or advanced techniques, such as object oriented inheritance, threading, and automated testing Imperative Say how to do it: Procedural Higher barrier of entry - Expects authors to know the language syntax, available API libraries, and conventions; possible exceptions in the logic flow Greater developer flexibility - Language- specific editors and tooling are designed to improve coder productivity ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-4-11-image2.png){width="5.0in" height="3.4444444444444446in"}![Deployment frameworks for infrastructure as code One of the new practices that comes with working with many individual microservices and components that you want to build independently is using a framework to simplify the deployment of your resources and code. You no longer hand off a compiled binary for deployment to multiple servers. Instead, you need to tell AWS Lambda where to get your function code. You need to set up other resources required by your application (APIs, tables, and so on), and you need to ensure that correct permissions are set between the services that make up your application. You need to package your functions and resources, and then deploy them into the cloud without connecting to any servers. You will learn about the following four deployment frameworks in this module. To learn more, expand each of the following four deployment models. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-4-11-image3.png){width="5.0in" height="3.5in"}



