# 21

Created: 2023-09-24 11:30:01 -0600

Modified: 2023-10-22 17:26:11 -0600

---

Summary

The module delves into the intricacies of Kinesis Data Streams and DynamoDB Streams, highlighting their integration with Lambda, the differences between streams and queues, and the importance of batch processing, scaling, and idempotency.

Facts

- DynamoDB Streams creates an ordered set of records from changes to a DynamoDB table, which can be consumed by other services.
- Kinesis Data Streams, part of the Kinesis family, allows for high-velocity data ingestion and processing by consumers like Lambda.
- Streams differ from queues in that they are designed for high velocity and throughput, offering near-real-time access to data.
- Multiple consumers can process messages from streams, whereas a queue typically has one consumer per message.
- Lambda, when integrated with Kinesis Data Streams, maintains a pointer to the next batch of messages, ensuring ordered processing.
- By default, one Lambda function processes one shard in a Kinesis Data Stream. However, this concurrency can be increased.



![Lambda polls the stream Lambda polls the stream and invokes your function with an event that contains a batch of messages. Lambda maintains a pointer of the last record processed on the stream. The Lambda service gets one batch of records per shard and invokes one Lambda function per shard. If that batch is successfully processed, Lambda will move on to the next batch of records in the shard based on the pointer position. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image1.png){width="4.020833333333333in" height="3.8819444444444446in"}







![How Lambda manages streams as an event source To learn more, choose each hotspot. Lambda maintains a pointer on the stream and gets records from each shard in batches. Lambda won't try a new invocation until the prior one completes. On success rnove the pointer 0000 Amazon Kinesis Data Stream shard 00000000 AWS Lambda Lambda function ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image2.png){width="5.0in" height="2.8125in"}





- Checkpointing is a method to report the last successfully processed message, ensuring efficient error handling.
- Idempotency is crucial to prevent processing the same record multiple times.





- Kinesis Data Streams allows users to control the number of shards, while DynamoDB Streams scales shards automatically based on table read/write volume.
- Lambda retrieves records from queues or streams in batches, invoking functions synchronously.
- SQS and Kinesis Data Streams act as buffers for Lambda, metering the processing of messages.
- FIFO (First In, First Out) queues preserve message order, while standard queues do not guarantee order or single processing.





![Kinesis Data Streams A Kinesis Data Stream is a set of shards. Each shard contains a sequence of data records. A consumer is an application that processes the data from a Kinesis Data Stream. You can map a Lambda function to a shared-throughput consumer (standard iterator), or to a dedicated- throughput consumer with enhanced fan-out. A shard is a uniquely identified sequence of data records in a stream. A stream is composed of one or more shards, each of which provides a fixed unit of capacity. Each shard can support up to 5 transactions per second for reads, up to a maximum total data read rate of 2 MB per second and up to 1,000 records per second for writes, up to a maximum total data write rate of 1 MB per second (including partition keys). The data capacity of your stream is a function of the number of shards that you specify for the stream. The total capacity of the stream is the sum of the capacities of its shards. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image3.png){width="5.0in" height="3.2708333333333335in"}







![DynamoDB Streams A DynamoDB stream is an ordered flow of information about changes to items in a DynamoDB table. When you enable a stream on a table, DynamoDB captures information about every modification to data items in the table. Whenever an application creates, updates, or deletes items in the table, DynamoDB Streams writes a stream record with the primary key attributes of the items that were modified. A stream record contains information about a data modification to a single item in a DynamoDB table. You can configure the stream so that the stream records capture additional information, such as the "before" and "after" images of modified items. You can use an AWS Lambda function to process records in an Amazon DynamoDB stream. With DynamoDB Streams, you can trigger a Lambda function to perform additional work each time a DynamoDB table is updated. Lambda reads records from the stream and invokes your function synchronously with an event that contains stream records. Lambda reads records in batches and invokes your function to process records from the batch. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image4.png){width="5.0in" height="3.6805555555555554in"}









![Distinguishing DynamoDB vs. Kinesis Data Streams scaling behavior aws training and -y certification Kinesis Data Streams Polling rate • Lambda polls each shard once per second. Shard count • You set the number of shards for the stream. Scaling • You may modify the number of shards up or down, and you can use auto scaling to do this programmatically. 0 2025 Amaztm Web C' its Affi•ates Ali rese.ed DynamoDB streams • Lambda polls each shard four times per second. • The configuration of the DynamoDB table drives the number of shards automatically. • The table may increase its shards to handle the table read/write volume. When this happens, Lambda concurrency will have a corresponding increase. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image5.png){width="5.0in" height="3.4166666666666665in"}





![Configuring data streams as an event source to Lambda You configure the parameters of the data stream and lambda function based on your application requirements. To learn more, choose the appropriate tab. ON THE DATA STREAM • Kinesis data streams - The number of shards ON THE LAMBDA FUNCTION DynamoDB streams - Read/write throughput and scaling behavior of the table ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image6.png){width="5.0in" height="3.0694444444444446in"}



![ON THE DATA STREAM Function batch size Concurrent batches per shard Batch window ON THE LAMBDA FUNCTION Error handling options - If the order is important, use checkpointing otherwise used bisect batch on error Duplicate messages - Design for idempotency. Include function code that prevents you from processing the same record twice ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image7.png){width="5.0in" height="2.7083333333333335in"}



![Scaling behavior To learn more, expand each of the following two categories. Kinesis Data Streams Lambda polls each shard once per second. You can set the number of shards for the stream. The number of shards can be modified in conjunction with autoscaling programmatically. DynamoDB streams Lambda polls each shard four times per second. The configuration of the DynamoDB table drives the number of shards automatically. The table may increase its shards to handle the table read/write volume. When this happens, Lambda concurrency will have a corresponding increase. That's a wrap to the module on event-driven development using queues and streams. ](../../../media/AWS-Developing-Serverless-Solutions-on-AWS-Module-6-21-image8.png){width="5.0in" height="4.256944444444445in"}








